website/versioned_docs/version-1.2.5/contributing-guide.md, before:

---
id: contributing-guide
title: Contributing to bloop
sidebar_label: Contributing Guide
original_id: contributing-guide
---

## Requirements

1. Install Java 8 and sbt in your machine.
1. Read and abide by the [Scala Code of Conduct](https://www.scala-lang.org/conduct/).

## Project structure

Here's a list of the most important directories in the bloop repositories.

1. `backend` defines low-level compiler APIs wrapping Zinc APIs.
1. `frontend` defines the core of bloop, the task scheduling, the CLI and all the supported tasks: compilation, testing, running and linking.
1. `integrations` contains plugins for every supported build tool (such as sbt, Maven and Gradle) to extract any build to bloop.

When contributing to bloop, you will most likely need to modify code in the
above directories. The next directories define the rest of the project and
tooling infrastructure.

1. `bridges` contains Scala code written against Scala.js and Scala Native tooling APIs in a version-agnostic way.
1. `buildpress` is an application that given a list of `(project-name, vcs-uri)` will export a build to bloop.
1. `config` contains Scala 2.10 and 2.12 module to read and write configuration files.
1. `docs` and `docs-gen` define our docs infrastructure.
1. `benchmark-bridge` and `benchmarks` define our compiler benchmark infrastructure.
1. `launcher` is an application to spawn a bloop server and establish a
bsp/cli connection to it.
1. `nailgun` is a git submodule of `scalacenter/nailgun`, a fork of `facebook/nailgun`.
1. `sockets` is a library to use Unix Domain sockets and Named Pipes in Windows.
1. `website` contains the [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) code of our website. 
1. `zinc` is a git submodule to the version of Zinc that bloop master is using.

## Set the repository up

1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop)
1. Change directory to bloop's base directory and run `git submodule update --init`.
1. Run the sbt shell in the base directory.

If the sbt shell did not fail, you already have a working bloop build in your
machine.

To hack on the bloop repository you can use either
[Metals](https://scalameta.org/metals/) or
[IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/). Open the project and import the
build in order to get started.

## Learn the developer workflow

The recommended way to build and hack on bloop is by using bloop. Run
`bloopInstall` in your sbt shell if you are not using Metals to export the build to the
`.bloop/` configuration directory.

### Common commands

Once the build is exported, here are a few commands to test your changes.

1. `bloop test backend` runs unit tests for the `backend/` project.
1. `bloop test frontend` runs unit tests for most of the build server. This is the most common command to run.
1. `bloop test frontend -o bloop.CompileSpec` will test only the compilation spec.
1. `bloop test frontend -o bloop.DeduplicationSpec -- "bloop.DeduplicationSpec.three concurrent clients deduplicate compilation"` will test only that particular test case in the `DeduplicationSpec` test suite.

### Write commit messages

Write concise commit messages, with a capital letter at the beginning of the
commit message and with a potential description of what your change does so
that future code wanderers can understand what your contribution is.

**Tip**: If you're only making changes to the docs, add `[DOCS]` to the commit
message so that Bloop does not run tests for your commit.

## Install a SNAPSHOT release

When a PR is merged in `scalacenter/bloop`, the CI cuts a new release
available to any Bloop user. The version number of the latest SNAPSHOT
release can be found in the version table available in the [Installation
guide](/bloop/setup). It has a stable version number to
make dependencies reproducible.

### Depend on SNAPSHOT releases

The following table shows the latest stable and SNAPSHOT versions available.

```scala mdoc:releases
I am going to be replaced by the docs infrastructure.
```

Take a look at the list of published artifacts in [this Sonatype
link](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:ch.epfl.scala%20a:bloop*) and add
them to your project. For example, to depend on the latest SNAPSHOT of bloop
launcher in sbt, add the following to your project:

```scala
resolvers += Resolver.bintrayRepo("scalacenter", "releases"),
libraryDependencies += "ch.epfl.scala" % "bloop-launcher" % "$VERSION"
```

### Install a SNAPSHOT release in your machine

If you want to install a SNAPSHOT bloop version in your machine because, for
example, you want to use the CLI or integrate it with a local build tool and
editor, follow these steps:

1. Checkout the commit in master you want to use.
1. Run `sbt install`. After the command runs, you have:
    * Built all modules in the bloop repository.
    * Generated installation scripts and package manager formulas.

The logs contain the paths of every installation resource that has been
generated by `install`.

#### Homebrew

If you have installed bloop via `brew`, look for the path of the Homebrew
formula (ending in `.rb`) in the installation logs and run `brew upgrade
--build-from-source $LOCAL_HOMEBREW_FORMULA`.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms. For
example, if you're a macOS user and use `brew services`, restart the server
with `brew services restart bloop`.

#### Scoop

If you have installed bloop via `scoop`, look for the path of the Scoop
formula in the installation logs and upgade bloop with the `scoop` CLI.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms.

#### Generic installation (most common)

If you have installed bloop via the CURL script in the website, you can use a
local Python script to override your installation in `$HOME/.bloop`:

1. Give executable permission to the install script: `chmod +x $BLOOP_REPO/frontend/target/install.py`.
1. Run script with `./$BLOOP_REPO/frontend/target/install.py`.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms. For
example, if you're a Linux user and use `systemd`, restart the server with
`systemctl --user restart bloop`.

### Verify the installation of a SNAPSHOT release

Then, restart the bloop server to pick up the new local version. Verify the
local installation by comparing the SNAPSHOT version you wanted to install
with the version of the running server.

```bash
➜ bloop about
bloop v1.2.5+264-3441652d

Running on Scala v2.12.8 and Zinc v1.2.1+110-85b9a03c
Maintained by the Scala Center (Martin Duhem, Jorge Vicente Cantero)
```

Note the bloop version number in the first line of the above logs.

## Updating documentation

The workflow to update the documentation is the following:

1. Run the docs generation via `bloop run docs -w` or `~docs/run` if you're using the sbt shell.
1. Run `yarn start` inside the `website/` directory. Yarn will start a local web server with the current state of the docs.
1. Locate the Markdown file you want to editd
1. Make a change in the Markdown file. The first command will automatically rebuild the docs and the second one will show it in the browser.

If the previous procedure doesn't show a change because, for example, you
modified the name of a sidebar or the title of a documentation page, type
<kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> on the `yarn start` process and run it again.
Docusaurus doesn't incrementally rebuild changes to the Markdown page
indices.

Commit message:

Don't embed release table in version-specific docs
Because the release versions used are the ones of the generation time.

website/versioned_docs/version-1.2.5/contributing-guide.md, after:

---
id: version-1.2.5-contributing-guide
title: Contributing to bloop
sidebar_label: Contributing Guide
original_id: contributing-guide
---

## Requirements

1. Install Java 8 and sbt in your machine.
1. Read and abide by the [Scala Code of Conduct](https://www.scala-lang.org/conduct/).

## Project structure

Here's a list of the most important directories in the bloop repositories.

1. `backend` defines low-level compiler APIs wrapping Zinc APIs.
1. `frontend` defines the core of bloop, the task scheduling, the CLI and all the supported tasks: compilation, testing, running and linking.
1. `integrations` contains plugins for every supported build tool (such as sbt, Maven and Gradle) to extract any build to bloop.

When contributing to bloop, you will most likely need to modify code in the
above directories. The next directories define the rest of the project and
tooling infrastructure.

1. `bridges` contains Scala code written against Scala.js and Scala Native tooling APIs in a version-agnostic way.
1. `buildpress` is an application that given a list of `(project-name, vcs-uri)` will export a build to bloop.
1. `config` contains Scala 2.10 and 2.12 module to read and write configuration files.
1. `docs` and `docs-gen` define our docs infrastructure.
1. `benchmark-bridge` and `benchmarks` define our compiler benchmark infrastructure.
1. `launcher` is an application to spawn a bloop server and establish a
bsp/cli connection to it.
1. `nailgun` is a git submodule of `scalacenter/nailgun`, a fork of `facebook/nailgun`.
1. `sockets` is a library to use Unix Domain sockets and Named Pipes in Windows.
1. `website` contains the [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) code of our website. 
1. `zinc` is a git submodule to the version of Zinc that bloop master is using.

## Set the repository up

1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop)
1. Change directory to bloop's base directory and run `git submodule update --init`.
1. Run the sbt shell in the base directory.

If the sbt shell did not fail, you already have a working bloop build in your
machine.

To hack on the bloop repository you can use either
[Metals](https://scalameta.org/metals/) or
[IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/). Open the project and import the
build in order to get started.

## Learn the developer workflow

The recommended way to build and hack on bloop is by using bloop. Run
`bloopInstall` in your sbt shell if you are not using Metals to export the build to the
`.bloop/` configuration directory.

### Common commands

Once the build is exported, here are a few commands to test your changes.

1. `bloop test backend` runs unit tests for the `backend/` project.
1. `bloop test frontend` runs unit tests for most of the build server. This is the most common command to run.
1. `bloop test frontend -o bloop.CompileSpec` will test only the compilation spec.
1. `bloop test frontend -o bloop.DeduplicationSpec -- "bloop.DeduplicationSpec.three concurrent clients deduplicate compilation"` will test only that particular test case in the `DeduplicationSpec` test suite.

### Write commit messages

Write concise commit messages, with a capital letter at the beginning of the
commit message and with a potential description of what your change does so
that future code wanderers can understand what your contribution is.

**Tip**: If you're only making changes to the docs, add `[DOCS]` to the commit
message so that Bloop does not run tests for your commit.

## Install a SNAPSHOT release

When a PR is merged in `scalacenter/bloop`, the CI cuts a new release
available to any Bloop user. The version number of the latest SNAPSHOT
release can be found in the version table available in the [Installation
guide](/bloop/setup). It has a stable version number to
make dependencies reproducible.

### Depend on SNAPSHOT releases

The table in [the setup page](/bloop/setup) shows the latest stable and
SNAPSHOT versions available. Pick either.

Then take a look at the list of published artifacts in [this Sonatype
link](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:ch.epfl.scala%20a:bloop*) and add
them to your project. For example, to depend on the latest SNAPSHOT of bloop
launcher in sbt, add the following to your project:

```scala
resolvers += Resolver.bintrayRepo("scalacenter", "releases"),
libraryDependencies += "ch.epfl.scala" % "bloop-launcher" % "$VERSION"
```

### Install a SNAPSHOT release in your machine

If you want to install a SNAPSHOT bloop version in your machine because, for
example, you want to use the CLI or integrate it with a local build tool and
editor, follow these steps:

1. Checkout the commit in master you want to use.
1. Run `sbt install`. After the command runs, you have:
    * Built all modules in the bloop repository.
    * Generated installation scripts and package manager formulas.

The logs contain the paths of every installation resource that has been
generated by `install`.

#### Homebrew

If you have installed bloop via `brew`, look for the path of the Homebrew
formula (ending in `.rb`) in the installation logs and run `brew upgrade
--build-from-source $LOCAL_HOMEBREW_FORMULA`.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms. For
example, if you're a macOS user and use `brew services`, restart the server
with `brew services restart bloop`.

#### Scoop

If you have installed bloop via `scoop`, look for the path of the Scoop
formula in the installation logs and upgade bloop with the `scoop` CLI.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms.

#### Generic installation (most common)

If you have installed bloop via the CURL script in the website, you can use a
local Python script to override your installation in `$HOME/.bloop`:

1. Give executable permission to the install script: `chmod +x $BLOOP_REPO/frontend/target/install.py`.
1. Run script with `./$BLOOP_REPO/frontend/target/install.py`.

Then, **restart the bloop server** to pick up the new installed version.

The command to run depends on how you have run the bloop server, the [Build
Server reference](server.md) explains the available startup mechanisms. For
example, if you're a Linux user and use `systemd`, restart the server with
`systemctl --user restart bloop`.

### Verify the installation of a SNAPSHOT release

Then, restart the bloop server to pick up the new local version. Verify the
local installation by comparing the SNAPSHOT version you wanted to install
with the version of the running server.

```bash
➜ bloop about
bloop v1.2.5+264-3441652d

Running on Scala v2.12.8 and Zinc v1.2.1+110-85b9a03c
Maintained by the Scala Center (Martin Duhem, Jorge Vicente Cantero)
```

Note the bloop version number in the first line of the above logs.

## Updating documentation

The workflow to update the documentation is the following:

1. Run the docs generation via `bloop run docs -w` or `~docs/run` if you're using the sbt shell.
1. Run `yarn start` inside the `website/` directory. Yarn will start a local web server with the current state of the docs.
1. Locate the Markdown file you want to editd
1. Make a change in the Markdown file. The first command will automatically rebuild the docs and the second one will show it in the browser.

If the previous procedure doesn't show a change because, for example, you
modified the name of a sidebar or the title of a documentation page, type
<kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> on the `yarn start` process and run it again.
Docusaurus doesn't incrementally rebuild changes to the Markdown page
indices.
