notes/v1.0.0-M8.md, before:

# Bloop v1.0.0-M8

This is the eighth milestone of Bloop! :tada:

While we're working on ergonomics and making bloop easier to use by both users and build tools, this release is a hotfix of M7.

## Install the latest release

If you're on Mac OS X, upgrade to the latest version with:

```sh
$ brew install scalacenter/bloop/bloop
```

Otherwise, run:

```
$ curl -L https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/releases/download/v1.0.0-M8/install.py | python
```


## Highlights

#### [File watching improvement][#389]

In some cases, bloop could get hanging compilation processes caused by `CTRL-C` while file watching a given project. These hanging processes could interfere with new spawned processes that used file watching too, and in some scenarios they would steal job from the main file watching process and compilation or testing wouldn't yield any output.

[Such a bug](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/issues/379) is now fixed. We have experimented with file watching in several projects and confirmed it now works reliably.

#### [Nailgun exception is gone][#390]

You may have experienced that the nailgun server would throw non-fatal exceptions like:

```
Dec 12, 2017 12:40:41 PM com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGInputStream$1 run
WARNING: Nailgun client read future was interrupted
java.lang.InterruptedException
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.awaitDone(FutureTask.java:404)
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.get(FutureTask.java:204)
	at com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGInputStream$1.run(NGInputStream.java:91)
	at java.util.concurrent.Executors$RunnableAdapter.call(Executors.java:511)
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.run(FutureTask.java:266)
	at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:1149)
	at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:624)
	at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:748)
```

As reported in [this ticket](https://github.com/facebook/nailgun/issues/112).

This new release fixes this issue, and now the server doesn't throw any exception. While this is not something important because the logs of the nailgun server should not be relevant, it cleans up logs and limits users' confusion whehn using Bloop.

[#341]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/341
[#343]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/343
[#345]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/345
[#346]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/346
[#347]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/347
[#353]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/353
[#389]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/389
[#390]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/390
[installation instructions]: https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/docs/installation

Commit message:

Mention classpath options in release notes

notes/v1.0.0-M8.md, after:

# Bloop v1.0.0-M8

This is the eighth milestone of Bloop! :tada:

While we're working on ergonomics and making bloop easier to use by both users and build tools, this release is a hotfix of M7.

**This milestone of Bloop includes changes to the configuration files; you'll need to re-generate
your configuration files if you used a previous version of Bloop. See the [installation
instructions][installation instructions].**

## Install the latest release

If you're on Mac OS X, upgrade to the latest version with:

```sh
$ brew install scalacenter/bloop/bloop
```

Otherwise, run:

```
$ curl -L https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/releases/download/v1.0.0-M8/install.py | python
```


## Highlights

#### [File watching improvement][#389]

In some cases, bloop could get hanging compilation processes caused by `CTRL-C` while file watching a given project. These hanging processes could interfere with new spawned processes that used file watching too, and in some scenarios they would steal job from the main file watching process and compilation or testing wouldn't yield any output.

[Such a bug](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/issues/379) is now fixed. We have experimented with file watching in several projects and confirmed it now works reliably.

#### [Nailgun exception is gone][#390]

You may have experienced that the nailgun server would throw non-fatal exceptions like:

```
Dec 12, 2017 12:40:41 PM com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGInputStream$1 run
WARNING: Nailgun client read future was interrupted
java.lang.InterruptedException
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.awaitDone(FutureTask.java:404)
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.get(FutureTask.java:204)
	at com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGInputStream$1.run(NGInputStream.java:91)
	at java.util.concurrent.Executors$RunnableAdapter.call(Executors.java:511)
	at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.run(FutureTask.java:266)
	at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:1149)
	at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:624)
	at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:748)
```

As reported in [this ticket](https://github.com/facebook/nailgun/issues/112).

This new release fixes this issue, and now the server doesn't throw any exception. While this is not something important because the logs of the nailgun server should not be relevant, it cleans up logs and limits users' confusion whehn using Bloop.

#### [Support for classpath options][#110]

Bloop now observes the `classpathOptions` setting defined in sbt builds. This setting configures how
the compilation classpath is constructed (whether to include the Scala compiler, automatically
append the Scala standard library, etc.)

This change requires that configuration files are re-generated. The instructions for generating the
configuration files can be found in [the installation instructions][installation instructions].

[#110]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/110
[#341]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/341
[#343]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/343
[#345]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/345
[#346]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/346
[#347]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/347
[#353]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/353
[#389]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/389
[#390]: https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/390
[installation instructions]: https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/docs/installation
