notes/v1.3.1.md, before:

# bloop `v1.3.1`

Bloop is a [build server and CLI tool for the Scala programming
language](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop) developed by the Scala
Center.

Bloop `v1.3.1` is a bugfix release for `v1.3.0`.

## Upgrade guide :inbox_tray:

These are **only** the upgrade steps. If you don't have bloop installed, you
must read the [installation instructions][] instead.

If you're on macOS, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ brew upgrade scalacenter/bloop/bloop
$ brew services restart bloop # Note a restart is required in case a server still runs!
```

If you're on Windows using `scoop`, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ scoop upgrade bloop
$ bloop ng-stop
$ bloop server # in a long-running terminal session
```

If you're on Arch Linux, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ rm -rf ~/.bloop
$ yaourt -S bloop
$ systemctl --user start bloop
```

Otherwise, use the generic installation method:

```
$ curl -L https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/releases/download/v1.3.1/install.py | python
$ bloop ng-stop
$ systemctl --user start bloop # or similar way to run server in a long-running session
```

Read the complete installation instructions in our [Installation page][installation instructions].

## Fixed Ammonite integration in CLI client

`v1.3.0` added an Ammonite integration in Bloop. Every time `bloop
console` is run, bloop compiles the project and then creates an Ammonite REPL
session. This integration required the cooperation of the nailgun script that
ended up misfunctioning due to a `git revert` error. The bug would print the Ammonite command to run but would not actually run it.

A workaround would be to run `sh -c $(bloop console $PROJECT)`, however
`v1.3.1` fixes the CLI client so that this workaround is no longer needed.

## Contributors :busts_in_silhouette:

According to `git shortlog -sn --no-merges v1.2.4..v1.2.5`, 1 people
contributed to this `v1.3.1` release: Jorge Vicente Cantero.

[gitter]: https://gitter.im/scalacenter/bloop
[installation instructions]: https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/setup

Commit message:

Fix memory leak in listing directories
Two crashes due to excessive open file pointers in my macOS machine have
fired a red alarm that have led me to discover a memory leak in the way
we were listing directories. This memory leak was caused because
`Files.list` returns an stream that must be closed, but I have not seen
that before because I was converting that stream to a Scala iterator
via the automatic Java converters and at the end of that iteration
resources were not correctly cleaned up.

Now we make sure that we always close these resources.

notes/v1.3.1.md, after:

# bloop `v1.3.1`

Bloop is a [build server and CLI tool for the Scala programming
language](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop) developed by the Scala
Center.

Bloop `v1.3.1` is a bugfix release for `v1.3.0`.

## Upgrade guide :inbox_tray:

These are **only** the upgrade steps. If you don't have bloop installed, you
must read the [installation instructions][] instead.

If you're on macOS, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ brew upgrade scalacenter/bloop/bloop
$ brew services restart bloop # Note a restart is required in case a server still runs!
```

If you're on Windows using `scoop`, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ scoop upgrade bloop
$ bloop ng-stop
$ bloop server # in a long-running terminal session
```

If you're on Arch Linux, **upgrade** to the latest version with:

```sh
$ rm -rf ~/.bloop
$ yaourt -S bloop
$ systemctl --user start bloop
```

Otherwise, use the generic installation method:

```
$ curl -L https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/releases/download/v1.3.1/install.py | python
$ bloop ng-stop
$ systemctl --user start bloop # or similar way to run server in a long-running session
```

Read the complete installation instructions in our [Installation page][installation instructions].

## Fixed Ammonite integration in CLI client

`v1.3.0` added an Ammonite integration in Bloop. Every time `bloop
console` is run, bloop compiles the project and then creates an Ammonite REPL
session. This integration required the cooperation of the nailgun script that
ended up misfunctioning due to a `git revert` error. The bug would print the
Ammonite command to run but would not actually run it.

A workaround would be to run `sh -c $(bloop console $PROJECT)`, however
`v1.3.1` fixes the CLI client so that this workaround is no longer needed.

## Fixed directory resource leak

`v1.3.0` had a piece of code listing directories via `Files.list()` that
ended up not freeing up open file pointers. Over a long bsp session, these
open file pointers would add up and eventually lead to fatal exceptions in
systems such as macOS.

`v1.3.1` fixes that by closing the resources opened by `Files.list()`.

## Contributors :busts_in_silhouette:

According to `git shortlog -sn --no-merges v1.2.4..v1.2.5`, 1 people
contributed to this `v1.3.1` release: Jorge Vicente Cantero.

[gitter]: https://gitter.im/scalacenter/bloop
[installation instructions]: https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/setup
